uh
hi folks i'm nandini chavagal i'm a
production engineering manager
at facebook i've been there for the last
one year
before that i was a director of
infrastructure
engineering at proofpoint security as a
service
and at proof point i've gone through
many roles including director of quality
and
director of infrastructure in my prior
life
before that i used to be a software uh
engineer so you can
say that i've been around the block
a few times um so as i start i want to
make sure that
uh i understand the audience so uh is
there a way alex that we could get the
audience to
answer whether they are in uh
traditional ops the sre or devops role
or production engineering
all right it looks like we have mostly
a combination of traditional ops or sre
or devops um so we'll go with that and i
hope
at the end of this session you would
understand what is production
engineering
and how would you make that what are the
key advantages of production engineering
and if you would like to move to that
model how would you
try and move to that model and
in the slides that we will post later i
will probably put some additional
reading
since we have mostly uh traditional ops
and sres here
so as i see the evolution of operations
we have had uh and a large number of
companies do have traditional ops where
you have software engineers developing
software
and suddenly you get a package i call it
the throw it over the wall model
but you get a package to be deployed to
production
and after that somehow the operations
handles everything
they handle the deployment they handle
the
on-call they handle the monitoring of it
and if anything were to
happen they would get called first so
you you may also have a
knock or a something like that picking
up a lot of the calls
google and a few other companies
introduced the concept of
sre where they used to hire developers
into the sre role so that people
understand how to develop and they used
to make sure
that they have actually the google sre
manifesto has about
principles um so the
five percent of the ops works kind of
goes to the development team the sre
load cannon
uh but the most important parts and the
parts that really
should be carried over is the blameless
postmortems
um the keeping of the slo sla sli
and the error budgets and also the
practice of reliability engineering
so suddenly now we have gone from throw
it over the wall to
a little bit more skin in the game for
the engineering
organization for the software
engineering organization to participate
in the
operational aspects of the service some
of
the teams may also be called devops by
the way devops is actually a way of
doing things rather than um rather than
an
organizational structure so i would veer
away from devops
titles uh so this is what google came up
with and it was a
it was an amazing uh evolution of
operations
it definitely made a lot more sense now
for
engineers to participate in the error
budgets and
understanding what is happening
and that is the genesis of
production engineering because a lot of
production engineers
uh the the leaders of production
engineers actually came from
google and so they said they understood
what was happening at facebook where
uh operation engineers were monitoring
the site and things were always crashing
and it was
higher uh more constantly and this was
in the
late uh uh 2010 and early
uh 2011 and 12.
uh pedro kanohati uh and santosh
along with jay parrik they started this
organization called production
engineering and they slowly
uh took the sre model but then improved
it and made sure that
that production engineers are more
embedded
into the facebook engineering structure
and that is what i will go over now
and as you can see on one end of the
spectrum you have throw it over the wall
and on the other end you have really
embedded
production engineers who are taking part
in the
uh the whole software development
process
alongside or in partnership with the
software engineering team
and the other cross-functional teams it
is not just software engineering that we
partner with
all right production engineering is a
hybrid of systems and
software engineering i i am trying to
keep it simple
instead of going through the entire
production engineering manifesto
the reason why we have to be a hybrid of
systems and software is we have to be
able
to go up and down the stack and
we will come come to that in a few
minutes
and the reason why we have to be
software engineers is because we have to
be able to understand and contribute to
the software throughout the software
development life cycle and i'll come to
that in a second
let's take the first part embedded model
so
we don't sit near the uh
software engineers we don't sit next to
the software engineers
we sit with the software engineers so it
is a totally embedded model
we are in all of their meetings um and
so i don't want to use there because
there is no them and us
ah so we are us um so
we are in all the meetings that are in
uh that are happening in the team
uh we understand the backlog we
understand the roadmap we understand
we understand all of the diffs that are
happening
sometimes we are reviewing the devs um
and we are also in the on call
and we are not the only people in on
call actually the software engineers and
production engineers are actually all
added into the on-call as equals so
uh if there are 10 people in the team
and eight of them
are software engineers two of them are
production engineering
then we go on call once uh
through that cycle as well so that is
one of the
items that you want to think about when
you are in an embedded model
and the role in software development
life cycle
is very critical if
if production engineers as production
engineers our focus
is on reliability scalability efficiency
and
efficiency if we focus
only on those aspects
then we miss a lot of the business
problems that we are trying to solve
and that will not provide us a lot good
longer term vision
so the way i look at pe's
role and software development life cycle
is that
you're involved right from the
requirements you have to understand the
business problem
maybe not to an ex extreme detail as
uh as the person who would write the
feature
itself but you need to understand enough
because you need to be able to look at
the architecture and say
is this going to be a good
candidate to go into production what are
the right metrics to measure what are
the reliability metrics to measure
will this scale if you are using 10
resources for 10
10 transactions if you go to a million
transactions will you have a million
resources is the scaling well
so these are things that a production
engineer can
contribute to right at the architecture
phase instead of
solving it in a reactive manner so think
about it as proactive
during development and testing we talked
about it you're reviewing diffs
along with the engineers and you
production engineers are also
contributing
to the reliability aspects so you are
coding alongside for that particular
uh project as well and then when it
comes to production you do want to make
sure that all the error budgets the
dashboards everything so
everything is ready and on-call is not
just
production engineers responsibility the
entire
software the entire team including
software engineers and production
engineers around
i talk about productivity and tooling
because a lot of times we see
that um so
sure now you're in production but you
may be having
a set of issues that uh that
any person on call is spending 50
percent of their time
now imagine in a 10 team uh 10 percent
team
if you're spending 50 percent of one
person's time
on call that is a lot of productivity
that has gone waste
uh so these are things that you want to
understand look at the on-call summaries
and
understand how we can eliminate the
on-call
workload or reduce backlog that you can
contribute to on an ongoing fashion
same with tooling facebook has an
amazing amount of tooling to be able to
understand how we can do some of the
things very easily whether it is
dashboarding whether it is
looking at the trends whether it is
looking at the errors and double
clicking into it
so these are things the that the
that several teams in the infrastructure
organization have developed
for the productivity aspects
um i talked about production engineering
focus
uh we have reliability um
keeping the service up and running and
not only just keeping the site up and
running but
also to make sure that the answers given
if you are an api service
are correct and on time so think about
all of the metrics there that come into
picture
scalability i talked to you about it if
you have 10 resources
for 10 transactions will it really scale
as you
go to millions of transaction
similar things performance what are the
cpu and memory usage that you're using
and all of your reliab
all of the uh the layers underneath are
they performant enough or
are you going to end up in a
in a waiting uh manner where
you are you're dependent on a service
which is synchronous let's say
and then you are kind of uh getting
uh getting stuck in those layers dev
efficiency we talked about
it how can you make all the developers
more efficient
by by developing tool sets
by utilizing the tools and by leveraging
some of the
tools at facebook we do have a lot of
these things
but if you are not at facebook you could
consider how
are some of the other open source uh
software
or other vendors that could be uh used
to improve your developer efficiency
and this includes not just software
engineers it also includes ml
engineers as well
here's a pyramid i will spend a few
minutes on but uh the
slides are available for you to refer to
later and this
is one of the important parts of the
production engineering at facebook
so at the bottom you have server
hardware and provisioning and server
monitoring and life cycle
a lot of ops and sres tend to focus
here and the reason why it is not bad is
you have
somebody has to do this and we have to
get it down
but after this as as the engagement
matures you really want to move
up and up and you want to understand how
are you
monitoring the service how are you
deploying it
uh is the deployment going easy or you
know you have
you you need uh manual handholding to be
in
to ensure that a service is deploying to
production
and it is not deploying without any uh
issues so you may want to have
gatekeepers so you can roll out for the
traffic for
five percent ten percent before you get
uh scaling and disaster recovery are you
uh
how are you doing if one whole data
center goes off
or other issues so this is where we look
at some of these best practices and
implement that
we talked about performance tuning to
see what
resources are being used and how we can
make sure
and then the one person stuff the the
team that i personally am
supporting we are in uh in this
top area because we have worked um
we have we use the facebook's
infrastructure so we're not
in involved in the server hardware
provisioning but we
have definitely matured our uh
our engagement with our uh suite
partners
uh to be able to do scaling performance
tuning and definitely contributing
to the reliability of our services
so you really want to see where you are
and how you can get to the next stage of
maturity
how would one get started on
pe so like i talked about it is hard
it is not easy which is why you need
not just yourself it cannot be a
grassroots kind of
evolution you do need some amount of
management uh buy-in as well so
you the you plus the management will
need to set a vision of
how this would work and how you would
make it work and how this would
be good for the overall company because
you are involved in the entire sdlc
so you want to get the alignment between
the
current organization and the software
engineering organization and anybody
else
your program management and others as
well
as you bring in the pe you have to
change your own culture
thinking and skill set as well so this
is something that is very important
without
without the cultural aspects of
blameless postmortems and
things like that it becomes very hard
for uh
you to get involved in a in an easier
manner
and finally there are some pathways i
i mentioned earlier that you have to
understand how to get into
the mindset of the developers by by
being a peer
you're not this is not a subservient
relationship you are a peer because you
are an engineer as well
who can code well who can who has
analytical skills
who has business thinking skills because
you really have to
do this in partnership with your
software engineering
organization
all right i want to quickly go over this
one so that we can get to the discussion
part of it the
top takeaways are to choose your
operation model because
it drives the culture the culture of the
company the culture of the software
development it drives the velocity
because
as i mentioned if you have uh
throw it over the wall model then you
really
are developing very fast only to get
stuck in the operational area
or if you're using the sre model then
only five or fifty percent of this thing
is coming into the
sre part of it you really want it to be
smooth
throughout the development life cycle it
is probably slower initially but then
you go slow initially to be able to go
fast
and this will enable growth in your
entire organization because you have a
much smoother pipeline
of features from requirements all the
way to production and successful
production
so that's what i would like to have you
all take away and i hope that
you can you can look at how to
incorporate production engineering in
your own
uh company uh happy to help and
uh and and lead you as needed
um i think my contact uh
is in is in the initial slides thank you
all appreciate you
joining us
you